There are a couple of other advantages to using pipeline.
Arguably, the most important is the ability to
optimize your entire workflow with grid search.
Grid search is a method that automates the process of
testing different values to find the combination of parameters,
the result in the highest performing model.
We will dive into this deeper later in the lesson.
Although grid search can be run on a single classifier to tune its parameters,
varying this on your full pipeline allows you to tune
the parameters in your data preparation and model,
which accounts for any interactions among the steps that may affect the final score.
Without grid search, tuning these parameters can be
painfully slow, incomplete, and messy.
The last advantage of pipelining we'll talk about is that it helps prevent
the easy mistake of leaking knowledge from
test or validation data into your training process.
Using pipeline, all transformations for data preparation and
feature extractions occur within each fold of the cross-validation process.
This prevents common mistakes,
where you would allow your training process to be influenced by your test data.
For example, if you use
the entire training dataset to normalize or extract features from your data.
This probably sounds confusing now,
but it'll be much clearer when you see this in code in the next video.